Global Scientific Dialogue: Introduction For Students 
=========================

University is about more than getting a degree certificate. Over the
three or four years that you are at university, there are many things
that happen which will profoundly affect the way in which your life will
develop. Very few of these things will concern knowledge of economics,
business, environmental management, or whatever it is you happen to be
studying. All of these things will involve conversations: with friends,
fellow students, teachers, girlfriends and boyfriends, flatmates,
employers, people you meet by chance, family members, bank managers,
university administrators, and so on.

This book guides you through a series topics for conversation about the
world today: about your future work, your hopes for career. And about
technology, science, art, creativity and interpersonal engagement. It
has been assembled in collaboration between academics from the
University of Liverpool, University of Hamburg and teachers at the Far
Eastern Federal University. Some of the perspectives come from different
disciplines: tourism, management, environment, and so on.

In all of these conversations, individuals come from different
backgrounds, they have different problems, they have different skills,
they have different political views, but somehow, they all have
something to offer which anyone can unlock if they really know how to
talk to each other. One of the most important skills in life is knowing
how to engage with people from many different backgrounds, skills, and
knowledge. This is a skill which cannot be taught as a single topic. It
has to be introduced as a challenge to interface with many different
ways of thinking and many disciplines. This is what Global Scientific
Dialogue will do.

Global Scientific Dialogue is unlike any course you will study at
University. Indeed, we think it is a unique course worldwide. To start
with, it is not a course which runs for 14 weeks, with assessments at
the end. It is a course which runs intensively for two weeks. In those
two weeks, you are going to be introduced to a rich array of different
ideas, ways of thinking, technologies and students from many different
courses in the Management School.

We want you to talk to each other about the things which you see and
engage with. Your teachers are not experts in any of the ideas and
fields that will be presented to you. Indeed, we don't yet know how many
of the topics which are going to be presented to you are going to change
the world, or disappear into obscurity. Your teachers are, however,
going to encourage you to ask questions like:

-   What do you mean by that?

-   Can you think of an example where that isn't true?

-   What does it mean to be 'right'?

-   Can you think of another way of describing that?

These are questions which we should ask each other all the time. In an
uncertain world, we need to understand each others' uncertainty. But
there is a skill to asking powerful questions, and cutting to the heart
of the issues in organisations, businesses and society that really
matter. Global Scientific Dialogue is about helping you to develop these
skills to ask powerful questions of each other.

The Core principles of the course 
=================================

Wicked Problems 
---------------

In all fields of work today, individuals are dealing with complexity.
There are many problems in the modern workplace which do not appear to
have easy solutions. Sometimes these are called "wicked
problems"[@rittel_dilemmas_1973]. Rittel describes Wicked Problems as:

> "problems that are difficult or impossible to solve because of
> incomplete, contradictory, and changing requirements that are often
> difficult to recognize."

Examples of wicked problems include the management of risks in
healthcare, or the management of the environment, or in the stimulation
of innovation in an economy, or in attempts to encourage students and
staff to learn new things in a university. In none of these situations
is there a clear 'right answer': in all of them, there are degrees of
uncertainty with which workers have to negotiate.

In each of these examples, *wicked problems* present many different
dimensions: some scientific, some technological, some communicative,
some cultural, some creative, and so on. No single perspective provides
a way to dealing with the problem. The best good teams can do is to talk
and listen to each other in order to act informed by a wide range of
perspectives and disciplinary knowledge.

Technology is increasing the complex demands of work, and it is
ever-more important that students understand the nature of highly
complex 'wicked problems'.

Creativity, flexibility, understanding of technology, communication and
the ability to communicate across many different disciplines is
extremely important in helping to ensure that wicked problems do not
become major disasters in the workplace. That means that students need
to learn new kinds of skills: it is not enough to have knowledge of a
single subject. You need to be creative, flexible, to understand
technology and to be able to communicate with many different kinds of
people.

Global Scientific Dialogue is a course which teaches approaches to
dealing with 'wicked problems'. On Global Scientific Dialogue you will
encounter many ideas which lie outside your specialised subject area.
These include:

-   Current scientific thinking in physics and biology

-   Trans-disciplinarity

-   Teamwork

-   Conversation

-   Innovative uses of technology

-   Understanding data

-   Listening

-   Creativity

Although you have gained much disciplinary knowledge in the various
fields of management and economics, this course complements your
disciplinary knowledge by providing a way of connecting different
aspects of knowledge with your understanding and curiosity about the
real world.

There is no 'one-size-fits-all' approach to this. Each of you will have
to find your own way, by tuning-in to the things that interest you.

This book has been prepared to help you. Although it is organised into
chapters, it is not designed to be read from cover-to-cover. Instead,
open it at a random page, and study what you see. Then open it at a
different page and study that, comparing it to what you saw before.

-   Each page contains a different topic.

-   Each topic has a series of questions for you to ask yourself

-   Each topic has a body of text which explains why the topic is
    important

-   Each topic has links to literature and other resources to help you
    think about the topic.

When you open this book, open your mind. Your brain is the most powerful
computer in the world. Let it make the connections as you let your
imagination and curiosity wander. We hope you enjoy the experience!